Bokuto-san!
All right!
Counter!
Nice, nice, Kohei! Go, go,
Kohei! One more time!
Eiwa                                                              Fukurodani
Okay, one more!
Wait... It's too early for that.
I think things are going pretty well.
That Bokuto guy's not a big deal at all.
Fukurodani! Fukurodani! Fukurodani!
Nice, nice, Eiwa! Go, go, Eiwa!
It's not like he's gotten blocked yet today,
and it's not like anything
else should've set him off.
What's causing this?
Hey, what's wrong? Cheer up, already.
I...
I wanted to play in the main arena, too!
Bokuto-san's weakness number 6...
He wants to stand out.
It's way bigger over there,
and there are more people.
National High School Volleyball Tournament
This isn't fair!
Sub arena
Haikyu!!
Miyagi
Karasuno
Karasuno                                                                        Tsubakihara
Episode 12: Vivid
Line up!
Nice game!
Congrats!
You did so good!
Good work! You guys did great!
Tashiro-san and Kurokawa-kun are here!
Sawamura! Sugawara! Azumane!
You didn't notice, Daichi?
I didn't notice them for a while, either.
Crap, I didn't notice at all...
Karasuno                                                                 Tsubakihara
Fly
Thank you very much!
Thank you!
I was way more nervous than I realized.
Fly
Karasuno High School proceeds to round 2
Oh, crap. You're way bigger
up close, Sawamura.
Wait, did I gain weight?!
No, I mean you're bigger in general.
Hello, Kurokawa-san!
I guess he's an alumnus.
Oh! So he's our senpais' senpai!
Hinata! Yamaguchi!
Kageyama and Tsukishima, you
guys come over here, too.
Let me introduce you guys.
This is Tashiro-san, who was the
captain when I was a first-year.
And this is Kurokawa-kun, who was our
captain when I was a second-year.
Hello!
Hello.
Whoa!
Are they really first-years?
Sadly...
We should have some bentos,
so go ask Shimizu about them,
and hand them out to everyone.
Right!
That first-year setter and tiny
middle blocker... Who are they?
Kageyama, the setter, is an amazing kid
that's also a candidate
for the All-Japan team.
The tiny one...
Er, I don't know what to say...
He's an energetic brat.
An athletic monster.
What about when he was in middle school?
He was totally an unknown.
And sometimes... He's like a
completely unknown force...
He picked a fight with
Shiratorizawa's Ushiwaka.
Seriously?! With the Ushiwaka?!
An unknown force...
I'm pretty sure that's what the other
schools think of Karasuno right now.
Make sure you win the next match, too.
Right!
I wanted to be the one...
who told them to win.
Sorry...
Nekoma                                                             Kiyokawa
Yeah!
They're good... But I mean...
There's basically no team here who
doesn't have someone amazing.
Nice receive!
Oh, man... This is hard...
This is so exhausting...
You're empathizing way
too much with Kiyokawa's ace.
Those are some nice receives.
Out!
There was nowhere he could go with that.
One touch!
Fukunaga!
Nekoma                                                             Kiyokawa
All right!
Connect
Nekoma High School proceeds to round 2
Teranojo
Tsubakihara
Karasuno
Inarizaki
We have a little time after we eat, so
you guys can go shopping if you want.
I'm gonna go buy a
"The Way of the Ace" shirt!
Wait, Hinata! I'll go with you!
That's Karasuno's setter.
Man, he looks intense.
He's definitely got a presence...
I need to go check out
the new T-shirts, too.
Maybe I'll buy a T-shirt
to use at practices, too.
Could I get a small in that shirt, please?
The Way of the Ace
Number 1 - Your back should be an
inspiration to your teammates
Number 2 - Smash every wall in your way
Number 3 - Every ball shall be spiked
I...
I wanted to play in the main arena, too!
The main arena's bigger!
We let our guard down...
Last year at the tournament,
our match was the 8th match,
and the match before us was running longer
than scheduled, so we started after 7 PM.
There were barely any
players or audience left.
It was insanely hard to
keep Bokuto motivated!
It's sorta cold...
Why are you like this? Why do
you let this crap bother you?
But we're playing in the middle of the day
this time, so we thought he'd be okay!
Not to mention, you knew this
would happen since yesterday!
Are you really going to let the
court decide how you play?
Well, whatever.
He'll get into it eventually.
This happens all the time. Whatever.
Hurry up and get over it already!
You know we're at the
Spring Tournament right now.
It's not like Bokuto's
always on point anyway.
Senpai, you say the best things.
Say more!
Bokuto sure loses motivation fast.
I mean, he's actually being serious right now.
Then again, I don't think
Bokuto-san could understand
not being able to do your best
due to nerves or pressure.
He'll be fine.
Because we're stronger.
Eiwa                                                              Fukurodani
Fukurodani Academy is slowly catching up!
Though their ace, Bokuto Kotaro,
hasn't gotten many hits through yet.
Eiwa High School was the
most cautious about Bokuto,
so they may be a bit confused right now.
Konoha-san!
Right!
It's a dump!
Saru!
Nice kill!
Yeah!
Nice kill, Sarukui!
Bokuto-san's starting to get
restless. Any time now...
Bokuto-san.
This is basically the center court.
The main arena is definitely
bigger and has more people.
But...
Only about a quarter of those people
are actually watching you, Bokuto-san.
But the only ones competing here are us.
Everyone... is watching you.
I mean... the number of people
watching basically doesn't change...
Just one more push.
And...
Your student has come to see you, too!
Hey, he saw us. Bokuto-san!
The Way of the Ace
Number 1 - Your back should be an
inspiration to your teammates
Number 2 - Smash every wall in your way
Number 3 - Every ball shall be spiked
To be honest, I don't exactly
know how Bokuto-san works yet.
Though this may look silly to most,
Sorry, cover!
this is all very important to Bokuto-san.
Bokuto-san!
Left! Left!
Three blockers!
And there it is! Line shot!
That shot was right on the line!
It's because we're in the sub arena...
Bokuto!
Nice kill!
Good job, Bokuto!
...that the crowd is closer, and
we can hear their voices clearly.
Bokuto-senpai!
Hey, hey, hey!
Eiwa                                                              Fukurodani
We're lucky that the little guy from
Karasuno showed up at the perfect time.
I'm surprised you found him.
Yeah...
But even if Hinata didn't show up, we
just needed to make an opportunity.
Akaashi, you know you can
ignore Bokuto sometimes.
Though we might be in trouble if he
doesn't get back on game at times.
I'm only able to draw out just a
part of Bokuto-san's abilities.
And... Watching Bokuto-san
when he's on top of his game
is really satisfying.
Why not just tell him that to his face?
No, no! Then he'll never shut up!
Hey, you guys!
One Ball, Heart and Soul
Fukurodani Academy Boys' Volleyball Team PTA
Fukurodani Academy proceeds to round 2
You're right! The sub arena's the best!
Fukurodani is so good.
Right?
Could I get a small in that?
Karasuno High School
Volleyball Club
Haikyu!!
Karasuno High School
Volleyball Club
Wait, what? Do you know him, Hinata?
No...
I don't.
I don't know him at all, but...
If I look away, I lose!
Oh... Hoshiumi-san. Hi.
Oh hey, Kageyama. How'd your match go?
We won.
Ah, congrats.
Thanks.
So... Do you know him, Kageyama?
We were at the youth camp
together. This is Hoshiumi-san.
Youth camp!
So they're on your team.
Yup.
What position do you play?
Middle blocker.
How tall are you?
16...5 cm!
He added a centimeter.
What's your running vertical?
333 cm!
I win!
Korai-kun, what are you doing?
The game before ours is almost over.
Karasuno High School
Volleyball Club
Well, see ya, Kageyama.
Sure.
Make sure I don't get yelled at, too.
He who laughs
in the face of grit
will be made
to cry by grit
I didn't want the "Grit and
Laughter" T-shirt to sell out.
Don't worry. I'm pretty sure
it's not that in demand.
Why wouldn't it be?!
Welcome back. Where's Ukai-san?
Takatani Daiichi   0-0   Matsuyama Seinan
Sentoku   0-1   Yunokawa Girls
Enzawa Girls'   0-1   Yamato Girls'
Kamomedai   1-0   Chikuida
Sannomiya Tech   0-0  Higashihara
He's still talking to some of the
previous Coach Ukai's acquaintances.
How have the matches been?
That #5 guy from Kamomedai
is really amazing.
Oh, here he is.
Hoshiumi Korai. 169 cm.
Left, left!
Whoa! He hit that above the block!
He's supposed to be amazing, right?
Was he in one of the magazines?
Nah. Apparently, he absolutely
hates interviews.
Really? I'd be super excited to even
do an interview for the school paper.
Where are you going?
I want to watch from up closer!
Korai!
Stuffed! Look at that block!
That was Hoshiumi-kun again, wasn't it?
Indeed, it was.
Again?
Wow...
Dang, he can do anything.
Who the heck is their #5?
Service ace!
Hoshiumi does it again! He can't be stopped!
The one-man army is on a roll!
He's indeed...
A little giant!
Wow...
Hinata's never faltered against
two-meter-tall opponents,
but I wonder if it's more shocking for him
to see someone in a similar
situation that's above him.
That just popped up in my head for a sec.
Kamomedai                                                                                    Chiuida
Hoshiumi!
You were amazing out there! Congratulations!
Thank you.
Your opponents had an average
height of over 180 cm!
They were all way taller than you!
How did that make you feel?
Uh-oh... Not good.
Huh?
Korai-kun hates it when someone
mentions how small he is
or says, "Even though you're so tiny..."
For as long as I can remember, whenever
he made a play way better than the others,
he'd always get told, "You're so
amazing even though you're so small!"
So he'd just say, "I'm
just amazing, period."
Compared to the rest of the world, being
over 180 cm isn't really that big of a deal.
Huh? The world?
Are you paying attention
to me because I'm small?
Uh... U-Um...
But the thing Korai-kun hates the most...
is to be told, "You lost
because you're so small."
Everyone thinks that being small is
more detrimental than it actually is.
Even though being smaller puts you
at a disadvantage in volleyball,
it doesn't make you completely helpless!
All right, that's enough.
Sorry about that. He likes to rant.
What?!
She was trying to give you
an honest compliment.
You said yourself that your height
puts you at a disadvantage.
Of course it means you're amazing
if you can still play this well, then.
You're too self-conscious.
Could you not be so blunt about it?!
Go on. Apologize to the nice lady.
I'm sorry...
It's fine...
Oh, he's back.
Hinata, Ukai-san's back,
so we're taking off.
I'm...
I'm so happy I made it here!
Guess I was worried for nothing.
Everyone's just so...
You're a great reference, too.
You all need to act more freaked out!
Hey there, now...
Looks like we've got us some
country bumpkin crows.
Good for you.
You came all this way and you don't
have to go back immediately.
We didn't travel that far...
Well... Try to survive tomorrow, too.
Right back at you.
As soon as both Kuroo-san and Sawamura-san
turned around, they stopped smiling.
Surviving day 2...
National High School Volleyball Tournament
Boys Match-up           Girls Match-up
I was reminded
just how difficult that was going to be.
Tournament Day 1: 40 teams disappeared
Jaybird Inn
Huh?
Niiyama Girls'
High School
They're from Niiyama Girls' High.
So they're at the hotel next door.
That difference, though...
They're seeded, right? I mean,
they won the girls' Inter-High.
Maybe the just finished their practice.
They really are royalty.
And their food must be...
A luxury all-you-can-eat buffet!
But I love how crispy they
fry up all the salmon here!
And I really like their rolled omelets.
Nothing beats the unlimited
refills on the rice!
Ryu-chan!
I heard that Karasuno won.
Congrats!
Th-Thanks.
Um...
So...
Let's both do our best tomorrow!
Y-Yeah...
Okay, see you later!
Yeah...
You've definitely got a chance.
Damn you! I was trying not to notice!
I mean, it's not even just a chance.
I thought this at the opening ceremonies,
but I'm pretty sure she likes you.
Stop!
I... have a chance?
Episode 13: The Second Day
Next time: "The Second Day."